you
mysteries of vernacular dynamite an
explosive consisting of nitroglycerin
typically molded into sticks dynamite
which coincidentally is closely related
to the word dynasty as as much to do
with familial persuasion as it does
etymology following in the footsteps of
his inventor father Alfred Nobel took up
engineering in 1850 he was exposed to
the work of Ascanio Sobrero the chemist
who invented nitroglycerin more powerful
than gunpowder and extremely
unpredictable this highly explosive
liquid captivated Alfred working closely
with his father he began experimenting
with nitroglycerin searching for a
practical application for the compound
after several explosions including one
that killed out for its brother
authorities bans nitroglycerin tests
within Stockholm City Limits undeterred
Alfred moved his lab and began
experimenting with additives eventually
finding one that transformed the
dangerous liquid into malleable paste
easier to handle and perfect for
construction sites he named this
material dynamite from the Greek Dunamis
meaning power and the common scientific
suffix it-- explosives made Alfred a
very wealthy man and in an effort to
balance the destruction caused by his
invention he created an endowment that
would award Nobel prizes to authors
scientists and advocates of world peace
for generations to come
you